

Artificial Intelligence
Ethical or Unethical??

Opposite Argument Research Paper
Due June 7, 2023?
	
By Isabella Dettori



Isabella Dettori
Stewart
English 10-5?
?7 June 2023?
AI: A Boon or Danger to Society??
      Artificial intelligence is software created to mimic human intelligence by being able to ?
learn and even copy natural human behavior, such as language. The field of AI is incredibly ?
broad, where different kinds of artificial intelligence models are used for diffrent purposes. ?
While it is a common belief that artificial intelligence can "think" as humans do, all it can do is ?
imitate the thinking process of humans. This imitation is most commonly accomplished by ?
machine learning, which is where artificial intelligence is "taught" through the use of large data ?
sets containing billions of videos, words, and pictures. The field of artificial intelligence has ?
grown exceedingly fast, and has recently begun to gain traction with the general public. The ?
public's knowledge of artificial intelligence occurred so recently that only a few years ago, the ?
average person was unaware of the existence of this technology. The novelty of artificial ?
intelligence is what makes it essential to explore the ethics of it. Because of its exceedingly fast ?
growth rate, it is being adopted by countries and companies around the world out of necessity, ?
and will soon become relied upon globally. While artificial intelligence promises several benefits ?
to society, which include automation, innovations in healthcare, and security, it will also lead to ?
catastrophically unequal wealth distribution, bias, and privacy incursions, which is why the ?
ethics of artificial intelligence must be analyzed.?
	One of the most widespread advantages of artificial intelligence is the automation of ?
human tasks. In this case, automation means the use of artificial intelligence to perform any form ?
of labor automatically, with little to no need for human interference. It is the solution to ?
expensive goods and services on a global scale (Cheng-Tek Tai). Artificial intelligence is one of ?
the best options for performing routine tasks since,"Human error in the workforce is inevitable ?
and often costly, the greater the level of fatigue, the higher the risk of errors occurring. Al ?
technology, however, does not suffer from fatigue or emotional distraction. It saves errors and ?
can accomplish the duty faster and more accurately" (Cheng-Tek Tai).  AI's ability to quickly ?
accomplish tasks, and replace several laborers, cuts down on costs for all businesses that utilize ?
it. Artificial intelligence would be a better option for automation in workplaces than normal ?
machines since it would be able to do a greater variety of tasks. While a normal machine has to ?
be coded by a human to do one task, an AI can learn to do several tasks, saving more money for ?
businesses (Issues & Controversies). By allowing businesses and corporations to cut down on ?
labor costs, automation enables start-ups to thrive and grow into large corporations, therefore ?
greatly improving the economy. It will improve the economy by lowering the cost of most items ?
in the market, therefore helping low-income families afford more goods (Cheng-Tek Tai). ?
Artificial intelligence can also be useful in protecting the lives of essential workers, "Advocates ?
of AI also predict that automation could benefit humanity by freeing people from dangerous but ?
essential work, such as fighting wildfires or cleaning up toxic spills" (Issues & Controversies). ?
Human casualties, especially the people who sacrifice their lives for these dangerous jobs, could ?
be reduced to a minimum. This would greatly benefit emergency responses,and would help save ?
more people as well. Automation will, overall, cut down on labor costs for businesses and lower ?
the cost of goods, as well as save lives of essential workers.  However, automation's usefulness ?
comes at a huge price. Automation will likely take away jobs from the population that needs ?
these low-cost jobs the most. By doing this, it reduces the majority of the workforce and causes ?
widespread unemployment (Cheng-Tek Tai). Jobs that were previously widely available ?
regardless of education will disappear, leading to poverty in many countries. This is so ?
widespread that, "[...] 18% of jobs globally could eventually be eliminated by AI technology" ?
?(Cerullo). This incredibly large percentage shows how powerful AI technology promises to be, ?
but also how dangerous it could be to the economy. While automation will bring benefits in ?
terms of lowering the costs of running a business and the cost of most goods, it will also take ?
away jobs from the low-income workers in society.?
	Despite its advantages, AI will still cause a severe economic imbalance in society, ?
leading to widespread poverty. Artificial intelligence has already begun to be used by global ?
corporations. By investing in AI, utilizing it in order to cut down on business costs, and to ?
estimate business ventures, wealthy corporation owners can get even richer through artificial ?
intelligence (Lee 86).  AI is currently,  "... poised to bring about a wide-scale decimation of jobs ?
?- mostly lower-paying jobs, but some higher-paying ones, too" (Lee 87). By replacing lower-?
paying jobs, AI will cause poverty and will increase the number of disoccupied people almost ?
exponentially. Artificial intelligence's ability to replace high-paying jobs too shows how many ?
fields will not be safe from the influence of AI, jobs such as janitors, construction workers, and ?
drivers are especially in peril (Issues & Controversies).  In fact, even more complicated fields, ?
such as teaching, could be taken over by AI (Issues & Controversies). To stress the point about ?
an unbalanced economy, artificial intelligence is guaranteed to hurt individuals and benefit the ?
wealthy, "While prices may decrease due to lowered cost of production, those who control AI ?
will also likely rake in much of the money that would have otherwise gone into the wages of the ?
now-unemployed, and therefore economic inequality will increase. This will also affect ?
international economic disparity, and therefore is likely a major threat to less-developed nations" ?
?(Green). Poverty will affect nations all around the world as AI replaces more and more jobs, and ?
the only ones who will profit are investors in artificial intelligence. Globally, societies mostly ?
composed of low-wage populations will be at a huge disadvantage to richer nations. This leaves ?
society with, "... enormous wealth concentrated in relatively few hands and enormous numbers ?
of people out of work" (Lee 87). The wealth imbalance caused by this will destroy the domestic ?
and global economy. It will also increase societal inequality, as the gap between the wealthy and ?
the poor expands. As AI continues to expand, it is clear that it can outperform humans in many ?
categories, and is also much cheaper than human workers. In fact, by 2030, it is predicted that ?
?73 million positions in the US alone will disappear (Issues & Controversies). Countries such as ?
Vietnam, Indonesia, and Bangladesh will likely fall into poverty and be at a severe disadvantage. ?
This is because their population relies on manufacturing jobs that would be replaced by AI (Lee ?
?87). The economy will be affected as well, with most of the money going to one side of the scale, ?
and the other side left in poverty. Due to the impact in wealth distribution AI has had and will ?
continue to have on society, it can easily be argued that its negative effects outweigh its ?
positives.?
	Advancements in medical fields and the distribution of health insurance brought about by ?
the use of artificial intelligence is a great boon to society.  It brings new, innovative ways of ?
handling medical care for patients, allowing healthcare providers to expand their opportunities ?
?(Issues & Controversies). Artificial intelligence's malleability allows it to be used for endless ?
different purposes, which include possibilities in assisting with running healthcare facilities. It ?
can easily take on administrative duties, since the average nurse spends about a quarter of their ?
time doing administrative work rather than caring for patients (Davenport, Kalakota). ?
Administrative healthcare use for AI is essential to ensuring that each healthcare worker is using ?
their time efficiently. If AI took over routine, menial work usually done by nurses, it would free ?
up that time for the nurses to attend to tasks more directly related to the patients. Additionally, AI ?
can be utilized to assess the chances of a patient getting a particular disease, recognize potential ?
cancerous growths, and perform surgeries. AI can often outperform human doctors in these ?
fields, especially in cancer diagnosis, "There are also several firms that focus specifically on ?
diagnosis and treatment recommendations for certain cancers based on their genetic profiles. ?
Since many cancers have a genetic basis, human clinicians have found it increasingly complex to ?
understand all genetic variants of cancer and their response to new drugs and protocols'' ?
?(Davenport, Kalakota). Human doctors are fallible, and despite years of training cannot always ?
predict cancer based on genetic risk. Artificial intelligence would be able to rapidly harness all ?
the information necessary to reach a reasonable conclusion, and predict a diagnosis early ?
enough to save a patient's life. AI could be the solution to the ever growing number of deaths ?
caused by cancer, as it will predict the cancer more efficiently and quicker than any healthcare ?
provider (Davenport, Kalakota). The impact of artificial intelligence on medical fields is not ?
confined to diagnosis and administrative tasks; it has a huge potential in the health insurance ?
industry. This industry has always been complex, due to the fact that, "Insurers have a duty to ?
verify whether the millions of claims are correct"(Davenport, Kalakota). This task is admittedly ?
difficult for humans to perform in the most effective way possible. Through the use of artificial ?
intelligence's decision-making claims can be more easily and efficiently verified. Not only would ?
this allow health insurance companies to severely cut down on costs, it would theoretically make ?
the verifications of these claims much more accurate. However, while artificial intelligence may ?
seem impartial and accurate, its decision making can easily be put into doubt. All of AI's ?
decisions are directly impacted by the data it was trained on, meaning that it will replicate any ?
trends found in the data. Since human bias can be often found in these data sets, and it is ?
difficult to erase it completely, artificial intelligence will use these biases when making ?
important decisions regarding what health insurance claims are accurate (Issues & ?
Controversies). Due to this, utilizing artificial intelligence in healthcare fields rapidly becomes ?
unethical, as it tends to discriminate mostly towards women and people of color. Data sets must ?
be selected carefully, and all bais removed, given that, "We will reproduce all of our human ?
faults in artificial form unless we strive right now to make sure that we don't" (Green). Bias in ?
the health insurance industry is a huge issue, since it will cause people that are discriminated ?
against to lack the same opportunities as others. While artificial intelligence is admittedly useful ?
in healthcare, its promotion of bias in the health insurance world makes it unethical in a fair ?
society.?
	Artificial intelligence's tendency to imitate human bias is what causes it to be recognized ?
as an issue to society. As previously mentioned, AI inherits human bias as it finds it in the data ?
sets it is trained on. Artificial intelligence works by identifying and replicating trends in data, ?
and if those trends are discrimination against women and people of color, it will replicate that ?
?(Issues & Controversies). AI's bias will be extremely damaging to society:'"Part of the appeal of ?
algorithmic decision-making is that it seems to offer an objective way of overcoming human ?
subjectivity, bias, and prejudice,'" (Pazzanese). This bias is especially dangerous as AI comes to ?
be relied on by more and more businesses and corporations. Without careful planning to avoid ?
bias, discrimination will become an even more prevalent issue in society. AI is already making ?
an ever-increasing amount of decisions in people's daily lives, showing that this problem needs ?
to be addressed immediately. Examples of these decisions include deciding who should get ?
parole, or be given housing or employment opportunities (Pazzanese). However, the issue with ?
bias and AI does not end there, according to political philosopher Michael Sandel: "AI not only ?
replicates human biases, it confers on these biases a kind of scientific credibility" (Pazzanese). ?
While any bias made by humans can be generally considered untrustworthy, any bias made by ?
artificial intelligence is seen in a different light. Due to AI's status as infallible, or generally more ?
intelligent than humans, the bias it creates is likely to be seen as justified or credible. While this ?
is clearly not the case, it is still a huge problem because it further stimulates and encourages ?
people to discriminate, and bestows upon these people the idea that their racism and prejudice ?
is based upon scientific facts (Issues & Controversies). AI's discriminatory issues can be most ?
prevalently seen in face recognition software, which has been sold globally, "Amazon, for ?
example, has sold a facial recognition software system called Rekognition to police departments ?
around the country, not without controversy. In 2018, the American Civil Liberties Union, a ?
group that advocates for basic constitutional rights, used Rekognition to analyze the faces of all ?
?535 members of Congress; the program falsely identified 28 members-one-fifth of whom were ?
Black-as people in criminal databases'' (Issues & Controversies). This information is extremely ?
concerning, given that artificial intelligences' inability to distinguish people of color and its ?
assumption that they are more likely to commit crimes could lead to more arrests of innocent ?
people. Additionally, this technology is already widespread, meaning that AI is already causing ?
prejudice issues in society. Face recognition software from companies such as Google have also ?
proven to be problematic and racist, as they have been known to mistakenly identify people of ?
color as gorillas. This issue is caused by a lack of people of color in data sets, meaning that AI ?
does not have enough information to correctly identify them. Unfortunately, this software has ?
already been known to promote racist ideals (Issues & Controversies). Artificial intelligence will, ?
to summarize, perpetuate dangerous bias and racism in societies around the globe, worsening ?
already existing societal issues. ?
	Improved security is another strength of artificial intelligence that can provide several ?
benefits to society. By utilizing AI's trend analysis abilities, crime cases can be  solved more ?
easily, and surveillance can allow for a significant reduction in crime rates. A primary use of AI ?
technology in preventing crimes is by using it in cameras to identify crimes while they are ?
happening (Issues & Controversies). This would allow for authorities to interfere while the crime ?
is occuring, potentially saving lives. Facial recognition technology is also becoming increasingly ?
common, and can be used to identify the perpetrator even in a short, blurry video as the ?
technology improves drastically. The impact this could have is huge; it would provide accurate ?
evidence in a court of law (Cheng-Tek Tai). Additionally, AI contributes to maintaining national ?
security by identifying possible threats. It can easily shift through the internet and identify these ?
threats, then proceed to alert the government. Through the use of this software, nations around ?
the globe would be able to more efficiently protect themselves against internal and external ?
threats (Western Governors University). Artificial intelligence plays a significant role in ?
cybersecurity as well, where it allows businesses and individuals to protect their data, " Using ?
deep learning, an advanced level of machine learning, companies can employ encryption ?
software and deep neural networks to protect sensitive information. And as more and more ?
personal information is online, the demand for cybersecurity professionals will only increase" ?
?(Western Governors University). Since artificial intelligence allows for greater protection of ?
data, it will help create a more secure internet environment, possibly reducing the number of ?
cybercrimes. However, while it is true that artificial intelligence protects from cybercrime, it also ?
enables a greater level of online crimes than ever before. In recent years, crime has become ?
increasingly automated. Phishing attempts, impersonation, and cyberattacks are all cybercrimes ?
that can now easily be committed utilizing an AI (Markoff 133). The misuse of artificial ?
intelligence will lead to dangerous possibilities for criminals, "Cybercriminals already exploit the ?
best qualities in humans [...] The ability to create artificial intelligence avatars that can fool ?
people online will only make the problem worse" (Markoff 135). Since artificial intelligence is ?
able to pass as a human, it can easily fool people into giving their personal information to ?
criminals. Additionally, it can commit hundreds of crimes simultaneously, making cybercrime ?
extremely efficient. There are other issues with cybercrime and AI as well, "Some AI software, ?
for example, appears relatively easy to trick, a potential danger should hackers seek to disrupt ?
applications and programs people have come to rely on" (Issues & Controversies). By disrupting ?
programs in places like self-driving cars, hackers can pose serious security concerns. Tricking an ?
AI can be as easy as changing pixels on an image, but can also be incredibly dangerous. Road ?
signs can be changed to be readable by humans but not at all by computers, and therefore could ?
cause several dangerous incidents with self-driving cars, endangering citizens (Issues & ?
Controversies). While cybercrime existed previously to the development of artificial intelligence, ?
this new technology increases the rate of the crimes almost exponentially, opening new ?
possibilities for cybercriminals to achieve their own ends. To conclude, the risks for society ?
being exposed to a greater level of dangerous cybercrime than ever before outweigh the pros of ?
establishing real-world and online security. ?
	Despite the advantages artificial intelligence can provide, it is essential to consider ?
privacy incursions that come with its use. Artificial intelligence requires massive amounts of data ?
for even the smallest tasks, and that data needs to come from somewhere. Unfortunately, most ?
machine learning models are trained using the internet as the data set, meaning that anything ?
posted can be collected and used by AI. clearly, this would lead to several privacy issues that ?
must be thoroughly examined (Green). While personal information could be accessed previously ?
on the internet, "As artificial intelligence evolves, it [...] can intrude on privacy interests by ?
raising analysis of personal information to new levels of power and speed" (Kerry). The rapid ?
growth of AI has led to more possibilities of using personal information, especially opportunities ?
to sort through data and identify trends. These trends could either invade privacy, by identifying ?
information or habits on an individual, or not invade privacy, by simply identifying trends in ?
consumers for corporations. An illustrative example of these privacy incursions fueled by ?
artificial intelligence is the recent emergence of what is referred to as 'AI art'. This is art ?
?'created' by artificial intelligence by using art found online mixing it with other art to create a ?
cohesive image (Chayka). There are three main problems with this art: "The artists had not ?
consented to have their copyrighted artwork included in the LAION database; they were not ?
compensated for their involvement, even as companies including Midjourney charged for the use ?
of their tools; and their influence was not credited when A.I. images were produced using their ?
work" (Chayaka). To start, the main issue is that the artwork included in these databases is ?
copyright. According to copyright laws, artwork is classified as copyrighted from the second it is ?
created, and getting an official copyright is not necessary. When humans use copyrighted art ?
without permission and credit, it is considered an illegal act. AI should be held accountable to ?
the same level (Chayaka). The lack of credit and payment to the original artist is also a source of ?
huge concern. Additionally, the majority of people are affected by the privacy incursions of ?
artificial intelligence, as it is able to access art, text, and even pictures of people posted online. ?
To summarize, it affects anyone who has posted anything on the internet, as AI programs can ?
access it and utilize it. This leads to issues about how information posted online is used, "Use of ?
personal information [...] implicates privacy interests in controlling how information is used" ?
?(Kerry). When personal information is collected and used by artificial intelligence programs, ?
without permission, it can be used to discriminate against people with certain attributes, therefore ?
connecting privacy concerns with bias concerns. Facial recognition software has also been used, ?
with contribution from AI, to invade upon the privacy of individuals. While this is not too ?
prevalent in democratic countries, countries such as China use AI in security cameras as a means ?
of authoritarian control. It can be used to track the movement of individuals, as well as ensure ?
control over citizens (Kerry). Privacy issues with artificial intelligence are, overall, incredibly ?
prevalent and must be considered when weighing the ethics of AI.?
       A thorough analysis of artificial intelligence reveals multiple benefits to society, but also ?
dangerous inherent risks. While AI helps corporations through increased automation, improves ?
security, and has the potential to bring new innovations to the healthcare field, it is essential to ?
consider the danger it poses to privacy, the bias it instills into society, and the economic ?
inequality it will worsen. Firstly, through the use of automation, start-ups and corporations will ?
thrive, and be able to lower the costs of production. This would lead to lower prices in the ?
market, and has the potential to protect humans from dangerous jobs as well. However, it would ?
also take low-wage jobs from the people who require it the most, leaving them in poverty. This ?
poverty is what causes the economic inequity mentioned previously to worsen. As investors in ?
artificial intelligence make a huge profit, low-wage laborers will lose their jobs and be forced ?
into dissoccupation. This will also have a huge impact on the power balance globally, ?
impoverishing countries that rely heavily on manufacturing. Healthcare is another industry that ?
AI will greatly benefit. It takes care of administrative duties, allowing healthcare facilities to ?
have more time to take care of their patients. Additionally, artificial intelligence can help ?
diagnose cancer early on, saving lives. Recently, AI has been used in the health insurance ?
industry as well, which has unfortunately caused bias towards women and people of color. This ?
bias is a second example of the negative impacts artificial intelligence has on society. While it is ?
a common belief that AI is infallible and impartial, it copies any human discrimination it finds in ?
the data sets it is given. Even worse, it gives these biases a scientific credibility, despite the fact ?
that they are all discriminatory and false. The last main benefit of artificial intelligence is ?
improved security through the use of AI's trend analysis capabilities. When implemented in ?
security cameras, AI can recognize crimes while they are occuring, giving authorities time to ?
interfere and possibly protecting lives. It can identify national threats on the internet, and ?
protect data for both corporations and individuals. Despite this, artificial intelligence also poses ?
security concerns, as cyber criminals take advantage of this new technology to commit hundreds ?
of cybercrimes simultaneously. Despite the several advantages, privacy inclusions caused by AI ?
must be considered as well. Given that artificial intelligence is trained using the internet, it can ?
access almost any data online. An example of these privacy issues is the taking of art from artists ?
without permission, and then used by artificial intelligence to create a new image. By examining ?
and addressing these ethical concerns, society can determine if artificial intelligence will, in ?
general, be a boon or a danger to society.?
Dettori 1?
?1?


